Collette, I’m home.
In the kitchen, Curtis.
How was your day?
Oh, it was a long day,
but it’s nice being home.
That smells amazing!
I can’t wait.
Oh, well, it will be ready
in a few minutes.
But I have a surprise;
my job gave us tickets
to the game this weekend
—enough for all of us to go.
So it’s downtown at the . . .
That sounded like fun.
It was a sport we could enjoy watching.
Collette and I hadn’t been in years,
and I don’t think the kids had ever gone.
We were all looking forward
to a family night out.
But, Dad, what exactly do we do
during the national anthem?
Honestly, I wasn’t sure.
Ladies and gentlemen,
would you please stand
for the singing
of our national anthem?
Dad, I have a question too.
Will they salute the flag at my new school?
That’s right.
The conference
with her teachers was next week,
and we didn’t know what they’d do there.
OK, class.
Now that everyone is here,
let’s all stand
for the pledge of allegiance.
Elizabeth, is everything all right?
What do you think, Honey?
Well, tomorrow night
is our Family Worship evening.
So why don’t we do
a study project as a family
on Christian neutrality at public events?
That sounds like a good idea.
Yeah.
I think this will be great.
We’ll all get a chance to do our research.
I asked Daniel to research
Christian principles on neutrality.
Collette and Elizabeth would find examples
of ones who proved loyal under pressure.
And for me,
my job was to call Elizabeth’s new school
to find out if they saluted
the flag or sang the anthem.
Hello.
Hi, Mr. Johnson?
This is Curtis, Elizabeth’s dad.
We’d studied this topic
when the kids were younger,
but we needed reminders
for these new challenges.
The kids found some great information.
Several Bible principles applied.
But what Jesus said at Matthew 4:10
was an essential foundation:
“It is Jehovah your God you must worship,
and it is to him alone
you must render sacred service.”
If we participate in a nationalistic ceremony,
we’re sharing in worship
of something or someone
other than Jehovah God.
But what would help us know what to do?
Elizabeth found
some good examples to imitate.
The account of Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego
was one of our favorites.
When King Nebuchadnezzar
ordered them to worship the gold image,
they bravely stood
while others bowed down.
They were determined
to worship only Jehovah,
and He rescued them from the furnace.
And there are modern-day examples
of courage like the three Hebrews.
Some children have had to take a stand
when governments tried to force them
to take part
in patriotic events during wartime,
when feelings of national pride ran strong.
And despite legal victories
in some countries,
young ones today are still put to the test.
We learned there was
no one answer on what to do.
Situations are different
depending on where we live
or what a person does
to show he’s participating.
But in every case,
Christians in some way make it evident
that they are respectful observers,
not participants.
We felt good because we had decided
what we would do
to be respectful but neutral
and show Jehovah
that our family worships him alone.